{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\upr{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f3\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 02000500000000000000}Symbol;}{\f4\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 02000500000000000000}Times;}{\f20\fnil\fcharset77\fprq0{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}B Helvetica Bold{\*\falt Times New Roman};}}{\*\ud{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f3\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 02000500000000000000}Symbol;}{\f4\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 02000500000000000000}Times;}{\f20\fnil\fcharset77\fprq0{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}B Helvetica Bold{\*\falt Times New Roman};}}}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\cgrid \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\fi-270\li990\widctlpar\tx-720\tx990\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext15 Level2;}{\s16\fi-720\li720\widctlpar\tx-720\tx720\adjustright \f4\fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext16 Level1;}{\s17\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\tx-720\tx360\adjustright \caps\f20\fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext17 Article;}{\s18\fi-720\li720\widctlpar\tx-720\tx720\adjustright \caps\f4\fs20\cgrid \sbasedon16 \snext18 Section;}{\s19\fi-360\li1080\keep\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext19 (1-2.3a) Item;}{\s20\fi-720\li720\sb120\keep\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext20 (1-2.3) Paragraph;}{\s21\sb240\keep\keepn\widctlpar\adjustright \b\fs22\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext21 (1-2) Section;}}{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid0\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li1800\jclisttab\tx1800 }{\listname ;}\listid-132}{\list\listtemplateid0\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li1440\jclisttab\tx1440 }{\listname ;}\listid-131}{\list\listtemplateid0\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li1080\jclisttab\tx1080 }{\listname ;}\listid-130}{\list\listtemplateid0\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\jclisttab\tx720 }{\listname ;}\listid-129}{\list\listtemplateid0\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc23\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\u-3913 _;}{\levelnumbers;}\f3\fbias0 \fi-360\li1800\jclisttab\tx1800 }{\listname ;}\listid-128}{\list\listtemplateid0\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc23\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\u-3913 _;}{\levelnumbers;}\f3\fbias0 \fi-360\li1440\jclisttab\tx1440 }{\listname ;}\listid-127}{\list\listtemplateid0\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc23\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\u-3913 _;}{\levelnumbers;}\f3\fbias0 \fi-360\li1080\jclisttab\tx1080 }{\listname ;}\listid-126}{\list\listtemplateid0\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc23\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\u-3913 _;}{\levelnumbers;}\f3\fbias0 \fi-360\li720\jclisttab\tx720 }{\listname ;}\listid-125}{\list\listtemplateid0\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li360\jclisttab\tx360 }{\listname ;}\listid-120}{\list\listtemplateid0\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc23\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\u-3913 _;}{\levelnumbers;}\f3\fbias0 \fi-360\li360\jclisttab\tx360 }{\listname ;}\listid-119}}{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid-119\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid-125\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid-126\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid-127\listoverridecount0\ls4}{\listoverride\listid-128\listoverridecount0\ls5}{\listoverride\listid-120\listoverridecount0\ls6}{\listoverride\listid-129\listoverridecount0\ls7}{\listoverride\listid-130\listoverridecount0\ls8}{\listoverride\listid-131\listoverridecount0\ls9}{\listoverride\listid-132\listoverridecount0\ls10}}{\info{\title BYLAW CHANGES}{\author TRUE}{\operator TRUE}{\creatim\yr2001\mo3\dy25\hr23\min43}{\revtim\yr2001\mo3\dy25\hr23\min43}{\version2}{\edmins1}{\nofpages4}{\nofwords2301}{\nofchars13116}{\*\company Cuyamaca College,   Physics Dept}{\nofcharsws16107}{\vern115}}\margl1296\margr1296\margt1008\margb864 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphhotz0\sprstsp\otblrul\brkfrm\sprstsm\truncex\nolead\msmcap\lytprtmet\hyphcaps0\viewkind1\viewscale100 \fet0\sectd \sbknone\linex-32767\endnhere\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\cgrid {\b\f0 Bylaws Proposal: At-Large CC Election\par }{\f0\fs22 (draft 6, 3/25/2001)\par \par Contact: Ricardo Newbery, newbery@greens.org, 619.286.5807\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\f0\fs22 \par The following are some proposed bylaw amendments drafted by the Bylaws Committee to enable the CC election changes outlined in the proposal approved during the December 2000 Plenary.\par \par Paragraph numbers have been temporarily assigned but are not part of the proposal -- they are subject to change in the final bylaws document. Strikeout text is deleted language. Underlined text is new language. Another more readable version, missing the strikeout text and the underlines and including the complete text of the section, follows this proposal.\par }\pard\plain \s21\sb240\keep\keepn\widctlpar\adjustright \b\fs22\cgrid {Section 7-1. Coordinating Committee\par }\pard\plain \s20\fi-720\li720\sb120\keep\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\strike 7\_1.1\tab Membership and Term of Office\line The State Coordinating Committee will be comprised of 20 voting members. Fourteen members will be selected to provide regional balance. 8 members will come from the largest regions (2 each), with regional size being calculated annually by number of registered green party voters on the 1st registration count after January 1st of each year. 6 members will come from the remaining regions (1 each). Members will also be balanced by gender, age, culture as much as possible and the committee will have 6 additional at large members who will be chosen with this balancing in mind. Voting members of the coordinating committee will serve a term of 1.5 years but shall not vacate their seat until the first business meeting of the General Assembly following the end of the 1.5 year term. In addition, the Liaison to the Secretary of State and the Treasurer shall be non\_voting members of the State Coordinating Committee, and may not concurrently hold a voting seat on the Committee.\par }{\ul 7\_1.1\tab Membership\line The Coordinating Committee shall be composed of up to twenty voting members including fourteen regional representatives and up to six at-large representatives. There are ten regions as determined by the General Assembly. Two regional representatives are allocated to each of the four regions with the largest number of registered green party voters, as determined by the Liaison to the Secretary of State, from the most current California Report of Registration available on January 1st of each year. One regional representative is allocated to each of the remaining six regions. Diversity and gender balance are encouraged through the election of at-large representatives. CC representatives are not eligible for the positions of Treasurer and Liaison to the Secretary of State. \par 7\_1.1.1\tab CC Elections and Term of Office\line At the first General Assembly meeting of each year, elections shall be conducted for CC seats whose terms are scheduled to expire within the calendar year including three at-large seats and any expiring regional seats not filled by an alternative regional process (see selection of regional members, paragraph 7-1.4). CC representatives shall serve for a nominal term of two years or until their successors are elected. In any event, at-large representatives shall vacate their seats at the end of the term unless reelected, and regional representatives shall retain their seats beyond the end of the term unless replaced or recalled.}{\par }{\strike 7\_1.2\tab Active and Inactive Regions\line When a region becomes inactive, as defined in Section 5-4 of these bylaws, the Coordinating Committee seats which it is entitled to elect shall become at\_large seats. If the region later becomes active, it shall be entitled to elect members to the next available seat(s). \par }{7\_1.3\tab Duties and Authority  (no change\u8230\'c9 move to beginning of section)\par 7\_1.4\tab Selection of Regional Members  (no change)\par 7\_1.5\tab Alternate Members  (no change)\par 7-1.6\tab Selection of At-Large Members\line }{\strike After the regional CC members have been chosen and announced to the General Assembly, whenever any of the At-large seats are vacant, the Coordinating Committee shall call for nominations and place the election of at-large members on the agenda of the General Assembly.}{ }{\ul Candidates shall submit applications to the CC at least two months prior to the election of at-large CC representatives. The application shall consist of a detailed biography of the person seeking election and what they wish to accomplish as an at-large CC member. The CC shall forward, without prejudice, the applications to the active county organizations along with a full and detailed explanation of the voting procedure, including a description of the "No Other Candidate" (NOC) option and an encouragement to delegates to make their choices seriously and a reminder that delegates do not have to fill all seats unless they feel there are enough qualified candidates.}{ The Coordinating Committee shall appoint three election officials }{\strike to conduct the election in a manner consistent with the following specifications}{ }{\ul and after the current and newly elected regional CC representatives have been announced and before the at-large CC representative election proceeds, the election officials shall present to the General Assembly a full and detailed explanation of the voting procedure as outlined above. The election officials shall then conduct the election as described in Paragraph 7-1.6.1, Choice Voting, if more than one candidate is running or as described in Paragraph 7-1.6.3, Approval Voting, if only one candidate is running..}{\par }\pard\plain \s19\fi-360\li1080\keep\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\strike a)\tab Approval Voting}{  (moved to 7-1.6.3)\par }{\strike b)\tab Instant Runoff Voting (IRV}{)  (moved to 7-1.6.2) \par }{\strike c)\tab Choice Voting}{  (moved to 7-1.6.1)\par }\pard\plain \s20\fi-720\li720\sb120\keep\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\ul 7-1.6.1\tab Multiple Seat Election: Choice Voting}{\line When two or more }{\strike at-large}{ seats are }{\strike vacant}{ }{\ul open}{ and two or more }{\strike nominees}{ }{\ul candidates}{ seek office, }{\ul a Choice Voting election shall be held}{. Each delegate }{\strike will}{ }{\ul shall}{ be provided a written secret ballot containing the names of the }{\strike nominees seeking office}{ }{\ul candidates in random order}{. }{\strike The names will appear in random order}{. The ballot shall also include a "No Other Candidate" (NOC) option. The delegates }{\strike will rank the nominees}{ }{\ul shall vote by ranking the candidates}{ along with the NOC option in order of preference. The ballots }{\strike will}{ }{\ul shall}{ be tabulated utilizing a Choice Voting system with fractional transfers and }{\strike the use of}{ a Droop threshold }{\strike based on the number of vacant at-large seats}{\ul , 1/(n+1) (1/4 threshold with three open seats). No candidate shall be seated who does not cross the threshold before NOC.}{ Choice Voting is the Single Transferable Vote (STV) form of proportional representation described in the International IDEA Handbook of Electoral System Design. (Institute for Democracy and Electoral Assistance (IDEA). First published 1997. Second edition. Stockholm, Sweden). }{\strike The Droop threshold is the percentage of votes equal to 1 divided by the number of vacant at-large seats plus one seat [1/(n+1)]. No nominee will be seated who does not cross the threshold before NOC.}{\par }{\ul 7-1.6.2\tab Single Seat Election: Instant Runoff Voting}{\line When only one seat is }{\strike vacant}{ }{\ul open}{ and two or more }{\strike nominees}{ }{\ul candidates}{ seek office, }{\ul an Instant Runoff election shall be held}{. Each delegate }{\strike will}{ }{\ul shall}{ be provided a written secret ballot containing the names of the }{\strike nominees seeking office}{ }{\ul candidates in random order}{. }{\strike The names will appear in random order}{. The ballot shall also include a "No Other Candidate" (NOC) option. The delegates }{\strike will rank the nominees}{ }{\ul shall vote by ranking the candidates}{ along with the NOC option in order of preference. The ballots }{\strike will}{ }{\ul shall}{ be tabulated }{\strike utilizing}{ }{\ul using}{ instant runoff voting. }{\strike No nominee will be seated who does not cross the threshold before NOC}{.\par }{\ul 7-1.6.3\tab Single Candidate Election: Approval Voting}{\line When }{\ul only}{ one }{\strike nominee}{ }{\ul candidate}{ seeks office, }{\ul an Approval Voting election shall be held}{. Each delegate }{\strike will}{ }{\ul shall}{ be provided a written secret ballot containing the name of the }{\strike nominee}{ }{\ul candidate}{ seeking office. The ballot }{\strike will}{ }{\ul shall}{ allow the opportunity to indicate a "yes" or "no" preference on the seating of the }{\strike nominee}{ }{\ul candidate}{. The }{\strike nominee}{ }{\ul candidate}{ must receive "yes" votes on at least two-thirds (2/3) of ballots cast to be seated.\par 7\_1.7\tab Liaison to the Secretary of State  (no change)\par 7\_1.8\tab Treasurer  (no change)\par }\pard\plain \fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\cgrid {\par }\pard\plain \s21\sb240\keep\keepn\widctlpar\adjustright \b\fs22\cgrid {\page Cleaned up final version\u8230\'c9\par Section 7-1. Coordinating Committee\par }\pard\plain \s20\fi-720\li720\sb120\keep\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {7\_1.3\tab Duties and Authority\line The Coordinating Committee will be generally responsible for coordinating meetings, internal communications and other administrative tasks, including the following:\par }\pard\plain \s19\fi-360\li1080\keep\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {a)\tab Establish agenda and select facilitators for general meetings. \par b)\tab Monitor and assist committee work and refer matters to committees. \par c)\tab Request and receive regular reports from committees. \par d)\tab Authorize and ratify specific expenditures\par e)\tab Authorize and carry out the decisions of the GPCA general membership and make executive decisions (but not set policy) between General Assembly meetings.\par f)\tab May make statements in the name of the party\par g)\tab Is authorized to retain legal council on behalf of the GPCA. \par h)\tab Is authorized to make decisions which legal counsel advises. \par }\pard\plain \s20\fi-720\li720\sb120\keep\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {7\_1.1\tab Membership\line The Coordinating Committee shall be composed of up to twenty voting members including fourteen regional representatives and up to six at-large representatives. There are ten regions as determined by the General Assembly. Two regional representatives are allocated to each of the four regions with the largest number of registered green party voters, as determined by the Liaison to the Secretary of State from the most current California Report of Registration available on January 1st of each year. One regional representative is allocated to each of the remaining six regions. Diversity and gender balance are encouraged through the election of at-large representatives. CC representatives are not eligible for the positions of Treasurer and Liaison to the Secretary of State. \par 7\_1.1.1\tab CC Elections and Term of Office\line At the first General Assembly meeting of each year, elections shall be conducted for CC seats whose terms are scheduled to expire within the calendar year including three at-large seats and any expiring regional seats not filled by an alternative regional process (see selection of regional members, paragraph 7-1.4). CC representatives shall serve for a nominal term of two years or until their successors are elected. In any event, at-large representatives shall vacate their seats at the end of the term unless reelected, and regional representatives shall retain their seats beyond the end of the term unless replaced or recalled.\par 7\_1.4\tab Selection of Regional Members\line Regional members will be selected by regional caucus of delegates at General Assembly meetings, unless the active counties of a region select another process. Any such alternative process must be approved by all the County Councils of the active counties of a regions to be effective; and a detailed description of the process must be submitted to the Coordinating Committee. Regions with two seats are encouraged to fill at least one seat with a woman to represent the region.\par 7\_1.5\tab Alternate Members\line Alternate members may be elected for regional members. Alternates will be designated for specific members and will serve for terms concurrent with the members for whom they are serving. An alternate may participate in CC meetings, but may only vote when the regular member he/she is an alternate for is not present. If the regular member vacates his/her Coordinating Committee seat before the completion of his/her term, the alternate shall fill the vacated position for the remainder of the term for which they were elected.\par 7-1.6\tab Selection of At-Large Members\line Candidates shall submit applications to the CC at least two months prior to the election of at-large CC representatives. The application shall consist of a detailed biography of the person seeking election and what they wish to accomplish as an at-large CC member. The CC shall forward, without prejudice, the applications to the active county organizations along with a full and detailed explanation of the voting procedure, including a description of the "No Other Candidate" (NOC) option and an encouragement to delegates to make their choices seriously and a reminder that delegates do not have to fill all seats unless they feel there are enough qualified candidates. The Coordinating Committee shall appoint three election officials and after the current and newly elected regional CC representatives have been announced and before the at-large CC representative election proceeds, the election officials shall present a full and detailed explanation of the voting procedure (as outlined above) to the General Assembly. The election officials shall then conduct the election as described in Paragraph 7-1.6.1, Choice Voting, if more than one candidate is running or as described in Paragraph 7-1.6.3, Approval Voting, if only one candidate is running.\par 7-1.6.1\tab Multiple Seat Election: Choice Voting\line When two or more seats are open and two or more candidates seek office, a Choice Voting election shall be held. Each delegate shall be provided a written secret ballot containing the names of the candidates in random order. The ballot shall also include a "No Other Candidate" (NOC) option. The delegates shall vote by ranking the candidates along with the NOC option in order of preference. The ballots shall be tabulated utilizing a Choice Voting system with fractional transfers and a Droop threshold, 1/(n+1) (1/4 threshold with three open seats). No candidate shall be seated who does not cross the threshold before NOC. Choice Voting is the Single Transferable Vote (STV) form of proportional representation described in the International IDEA Handbook of Electoral System Design. (Institute for Democracy and Electoral Assistance (IDEA). First published 1997. Second edition. Stockholm, Sweden).\par 7-1.6.2\tab Single Seat Election: Instant Runoff Voting\line When only one seat is open and two or more candidates seek office, an Instant Runoff election shall be held. Each delegate shall be provided a written secret ballot containing the names of the candidates in random order. The ballot shall also include a "No Other Candidate" (NOC) option. The delegates shall vote by ranking the candidates along with the NOC options in order of preference. The ballots shall be tabulated using Instant Runoff Voting.\par 7-1.6.3\tab Single Candidate Election: Approval Voting\line When only one candidate seeks office, an Approval Voting election shall be held. Each delegate shall be provided a written secret ballot containing the name of the candidate seeking office. The ballot shall allow the opportunity to indicate a "yes" or "no" preference on the seating of the candidate. The candidate must receive "yes" votes on at least two-thirds (2/3) of ballots cast to be seated.\par 7\_1.7\tab Liaison to the Secretary of State\line The Liaison to the Secretary of State is the official contact of the GPCA with the State of California and with other organizations. The term of the Liaison shall be two years, beginning in odd\_numbered years: the Liaison shall be nominated by the Coordinating Committee, and subject to the confirmation of the first meeting of the General Assembly in odd\_numbered years. The Coordinating Committee shall immediately fill any vacancy in the office of Liaison, subject to the confirmation of the next meeting of the General Assembly.\par 7\_1.8\tab Treasurer\line The Treasurer of the Green Party of California shall open and maintain bank accounts, keep financial records, and produce regular financial reports for the Green Party of California. The Treasurer shall also carry out any other duties appropriate and customary to the office of Treasurer. The term of the Treasurer shall be two years, beginning in odd\_numbered years: the Treasurer shall be nominated by the Coordinating Committee, and subject to the confirmation of the first meeting of the General Assembly in odd\_numbered years. The Coordinating Committee shall immediately fill any vacancy in the office of Treasurer, subject to the confirmation of the next meeting of the General Assembly.\par \par }}