{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\upr{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f3\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 02000500000000000000}Symbol;}{\f4\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 02000500000000000000}Times;}{\f21\fnil\fcharset77\fprq0{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}B Helvetica Bold{\*\falt Times New Roman};}}{\*\ud{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f3\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 02000500000000000000}Symbol;}{\f4\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 02000500000000000000}Times;}{\f21\fnil\fcharset77\fprq0{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}B Helvetica Bold{\*\falt Times New Roman};}}}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\cgrid \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\fi-270\li990\widctlpar\tx-720\tx990\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext15 Level2;}{\s16\fi-720\li720\widctlpar\tx-720\tx720\adjustright \f4\fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext16 Level1;}{\s17\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\tx-720\tx360\adjustright \caps\f21\fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext17 Article;}{\s18\fi-720\li720\widctlpar\tx-720\tx720\adjustright \caps\f4\fs20\cgrid \sbasedon16 \snext18 Section;}{\s19\fi-360\li1080\keep\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext19 (1-2.3a) Item;}{\s20\fi-720\li720\sb120\keep\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext20 (1-2.3) Paragraph;}{\s21\sb240\keep\keepn\widctlpar\adjustright \b\fs22\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext21 (1-2) Section;}}{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid0\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li1800\jclisttab\tx1800 }{\listname ;}\listid-132}{\list\listtemplateid0\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li1440\jclisttab\tx1440 }{\listname ;}\listid-131}{\list\listtemplateid0\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li1080\jclisttab\tx1080 }{\listname ;}\listid-130}{\list\listtemplateid0\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\jclisttab\tx720 }{\listname ;}\listid-129}{\list\listtemplateid0\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc23\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\u-3913 _;}{\levelnumbers;}\f3\fbias0 \fi-360\li1800\jclisttab\tx1800 }{\listname ;}\listid-128}{\list\listtemplateid0\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc23\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\u-3913 _;}{\levelnumbers;}\f3\fbias0 \fi-360\li1440\jclisttab\tx1440 }{\listname ;}\listid-127}{\list\listtemplateid0\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc23\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\u-3913 _;}{\levelnumbers;}\f3\fbias0 \fi-360\li1080\jclisttab\tx1080 }{\listname ;}\listid-126}{\list\listtemplateid0\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc23\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\u-3913 _;}{\levelnumbers;}\f3\fbias0 \fi-360\li720\jclisttab\tx720 }{\listname ;}\listid-125}{\list\listtemplateid0\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li360\jclisttab\tx360 }{\listname ;}\listid-120}{\list\listtemplateid0\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc23\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\u-3913 _;}{\levelnumbers;}\f3\fbias0 \fi-360\li360\jclisttab\tx360 }{\listname ;}\listid-119}}{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid-119\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid-125\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid-126\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid-127\listoverridecount0\ls4}{\listoverride\listid-128\listoverridecount0\ls5}{\listoverride\listid-120\listoverridecount0\ls6}{\listoverride\listid-129\listoverridecount0\ls7}{\listoverride\listid-130\listoverridecount0\ls8}{\listoverride\listid-131\listoverridecount0\ls9}{\listoverride\listid-132\listoverridecount0\ls10}}{\info{\title BYLAW CHANGES}{\author TRUE}{\operator TRUE}{\creatim\yr2001\mo3\dy14\hr16\min12}{\revtim\yr2001\mo3\dy14\hr16\min12}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages2}{\nofwords789}{\nofchars4499}{\*\company Cuyamaca College,   Physics Dept}{\nofcharsws5525}{\vern115}}\margl1296\margr1296\margt1008\margb1008 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphhotz0\sprstsp\otblrul\brkfrm\sprstsm\truncex\nolead\msmcap\lytprtmet\hyphcaps0\viewkind1\viewscale100 \fet0\sectd \sbknone\linex-32767\endnhere\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\cgrid {\b\f0 Bylaws Proposal: At-Large CC Election\par }{\f0\fs22 (draft 3, 3/14/2001)\par \par Contact: ? \par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\f0\fs22 \par The following are some proposed bylaw amendments drafted by the Bylaws Committee to enable the CC election changes outlined in the proposal approved during the December 2000 Plenary.\par }\pard\plain \s21\sb240\keep\keepn\widctlpar\adjustright \b\fs22\cgrid {Section 7-1. Coordinating Committee\par }\pard\plain \s20\fi-720\li720\sb120\keep\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\strike 7\_1.1\tab Membership and Term of Office\line The State Coordinating Committee will be comprised of 20 voting members. Fourteen members will be selected to provide regional balance. 8 members will come from the largest regions (2 each), with regional size being calculated annually by number of registered green party voters on the 1st registration count after January 1st of each year. 6 members will come from the remaining regions (1 each). Members will also be balanced by gender, age, culture as much as possible and the committee will have 6 additional at large members who will be chosen with this balancing in mind. Voting members of the coordinating committee will serve a term of 1.5 years but shall not vacate their seat until the first business meeting of the General Assembly following the end of the 1.5 year term. In addition, the Liaison to the Secretary of State and the Treasurer shall be non\_voting members of the State Coordinating Committee, and may not concurrently hold a voting seat on the Committee.\par }{\ul 7\_1.1\tab Membership\line The State Coordinating Committee comprises up to twenty voting members including fourteen regional representatives and up to six at-large representatives. There are ten regions as determined by the General Assembly. Two regional representatives are allocated to each of the four regions with the largest number of registered green party voters, as determined from the most current California Report of Registration available on January 1st of each year. One regional representative is allocated to each of the remaining six regions. Diversity and gender balance are encouraged through the election of at-large representatives. CC representatives are not eligible for the positions of Treasurer and Liaison to the Secretary of State. \par 7\_1.1.1\tab CC Elections and Term of Office\line At the first General Assembly meeting of each year, an election shall be conducted to appoint three at-large representatives and any regional representatives for regional seats whose terms are scheduled to expire within the calendar year unless an alternate regional process has been selected (see selection of regional members, paragraph 7-1.4). Regional representatives shall serve for a term of two years or until their successors are elected. At-large representatives shall serve for a term of two years unless their successors are elected before this time.}{\par }{\strike 7\_1.2\tab Active and Inactive Regions\line When a region becomes inactive, as defined in Section 5-4 of these bylaws, the Coordinating Committee seats which it is entitled to elect shall become at\_large seats. If the region later becomes active, it shall be entitled to elect members to the next available seat(s). \par }{7\_1.3\tab Duties and Authority  (no change)\par 7\_1.4\tab Selection of Regional Members  (no change)\par 7\_1.5\tab Alternate members  (no change)\par 7-1.6\tab Selection of At-large Members\line After the regional CC members have been chosen and announced to the General Assembly, }{\strike whenever any of the At-large seats are vacant}{, the Coordinating Committee shall call for nominations and place the election of at-large members on the agenda of the General Assembly. }{\ul Green party members who wish to serve as at-large members of the CC must submit an application to serve prior to the General Assembly meeting at which the election would be held. The application shall consist of a detailed biography of the person seeking election and what they wish to accomplish as an at-large CC member. Applications shall be sent to the CC two months before the election is held. The CC shall forward, without prejudice, the applications to the locals for their consideration.}{ The Coordinating Committee shall appoint three election officials to conduct the election in a manner consistent with the following specifications.\par }\pard\plain \s19\fi-360\li1080\keep\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {a)\tab Approval Voting  (no change)\par b)\tab Instant Runoff Voting (IRV)  (no change)  ??? *** IRV is only used when only one seat is available ***\par c)\tab Choice Voting  (no change)\par }\pard\plain \s20\fi-720\li720\sb120\keep\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {7-1.6.1\tab Delegate Packet?\line There must be included with the delegate packet distributed to all county parties, and there must be presented to all delegates present at the General Assembly where an election is to be held, a full and detailed explanation of the voting procedure as is listed above. Specifically, the no other choice option, the fact that delegates should make their choices seriously, and the fact that delegates do not have to fill all seats unless they feel there are enough qualified candidates to fill the vacant positions should be emphasized. \par 7-1.6.2\tab At-Large Vacancies?\line Should a vacancy occur for any at-large CC seat because of failure to elect, resignation, removal, death, or abandonment of the position, an election to fill the vacant seat or seats shall be held at the next General Assembly meeting according to the provisions in items 7.1.6 a-c. This election shall only be held if all previous notice and application procedures as listed in paragraph 7-1.6 take place. However, any at-large CC member elected at a General Assembly meeting other than those specified in paragraph 7-1.6 shall have their term expire as if they were elected as specified in paragraph 7-1.6.\par 7\_1.7\tab Liaison to the Secretary of State  (no change)\par 7\_1.8\tab Treasurer  (no change)\par }\pard\plain \fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\cgrid {\par }}