{\rtf1\mac\deff2 {\fonttbl{\f2\froman New York;}{\f3\fswiss Geneva;}{\f4\fmodern Monaco;}{\f13\fnil Zapf Dingbats;}{\f15\fnil N Helvetica Narrow;}{\f16\fnil Palatino;}{\f20\froman Times;}{\f21\fswiss Helvetica;}{\f22\fmodern Courier;}{\f23\ftech Symbol;}
{\f135\fnil I Courier Oblique;}{\f136\fnil B Courier Bold;}{\f137\fnil BI Courier BoldOblique;}{\f138\fnil I Helvetica Oblique;}{\f139\fnil B Helvetica Bold;}{\f140\fnil BI Helvetica BoldOblique;}{\f141\fnil NI Helvetica Narrow Oblique;}
{\f142\fnil NB Helvetica Narrow Bold;}{\f143\fnil NBI Helvetica Narrow BoldObl;}{\f200\fnil Mishawaka;}{\f201\fnil Mishawaka Bold;}{\f202\fnil V3 Lucida Sans;}{\f203\fnil V4 Lucida Sans;}{\f204\fnil V1 LucidaSans;}{\f205\fnil V6 Lucida Sans;}
{\f208\fnil V7 Lucida Sans;}{\f256\fnil Dingbats;}{\f257\fnil V5 Lucida Sans;}{\f258\fnil V2 Lucida Sans;}{\f1084\fnil BroadsideDisplaySSK;}{\f1109\fnil Trebuchet MS;}{\f1333\fnil TGEQA;}{\f1792\fnil Arial Narrow;}{\f1909\fnil NovaLightSSK;}
{\f1918\fnil NovaBlackExpandedSSK-Italic;}{\f2001\fnil Arial;}{\f2002\fnil Charcoal;}{\f2005\fnil Courier New;}{\f2007\fnil Monotype Sorts;}{\f2010\fnil Times New Roman;}{\f2011\fnil Wingdings;}{\f2055\fnil GrafittiScriptSSK;}{\f2057\fnil WP-MathB;}
{\f2079\fnil JackCondensed;}{\f2202\fnil WP-MathExtendedA;}{\f2264\fnil JackExtraCond;}{\f2392\fnil VirtuaSSK;}{\f2421\fnil Impact;}{\f2447\fnil WP-MathA;}{\f2515\fnil MT Extra;}{\f2536\fnil NovaSSK-BoldItalic;}{\f2543\fnil SproutExtendedSSK;}
{\f2698\fnil JackInput;}{\f2823\fnil EngraversGothic BT Regular;}{\f2888\fnil Swis721 BlkEx BT Black;}{\f2929\fnil NovaCondSSK;}{\f3061\fnil JackRoman;}{\f3068\fnil NovaBlackExpandedSSK-Bold;}{\f3400\fnil NovaSSK-Bold;}
{\f3504\fnil GeoSlab703 Lt BT Light Italic;}{\f3519\fnil Humanst521 Lt BT Light Italic;}{\f3520\fnil Humanst521 Cn BT Bold;}{\f3784\fnil Arrus BT Bold;}{\f3785\fnil Arrus BT Bold Italic;}{\f3786\fnil Arrus Blk BT Black;}
{\f3787\fnil Arrus Blk BT Black Italic;}{\f3788\fnil Arrus BT Italic;}{\f3789\fnil Arrus BT Roman;}{\f3941\fnil LCDDoubleSSK;}{\f3964\fnil OzHandicraft BT Roman;}{\f4065\fnil Footnote;}{\f4274\fnil NovaLightUltraCondSSK;}
{\f4275\fnil NovaLightUltraCondSSK-Italic;}{\f4498\fnil VAGRoundedBlackSSK-Bold;}{\f4513\fnil Comic Sans MS;}{\f4538\fnil Arial Black;}{\f4549\fnil NovaLightSSK-Italic;}{\f4639\fnil BreezeSSK;}{\f4744\fnil VAGRoundedLightSSK;}
{\f4845\fnil BernhardMod BT Italic;}{\f4846\fnil BernhardMod BT Bold;}{\f4847\fnil BernhardMod BT Bold Italic;}{\f4879\fnil NovaUltraSSK;}{\f5208\fnil NovaCondSSK-Bold;}{\f5245\fnil NovaLightCondSSK;}{\f5655\fnil GillSans BoldItalic;}
{\f5656\fnil GillSans Bold;}{\f5657\fnil GillSans Italic;}{\f5658\fnil GillSans;}{\f5673\fnil Tekton Bold;}{\f5862\fnil Bellevue;}{\f6178\fnil PawSSK;}{\f6545\fnil NovaExpandedSSK-Bold;}{\f6621\fnil NovaExpandedSSK-Italic;}
{\f6704\fnil AnticlaireDisplaySSK-Italic;}{\f6717\fnil NovaCondSSK-BoldItalic;}{\f6902\fnil Letter Gothic MT Bold Oblique;}{\f6903\fnil Letter Gothic MT Bold;}{\f6904\fnil Letter Gothic MT Oblique;}{\f6905\fnil Letter Gothic MT;}
{\f6909\fnil AnticCapsSSK;}{\f7114\fnil NovaUltraBlackExpSSK;}{\f7203\fnil Verdana;}{\f7300\fnil NovaSSK-Italic;}{\f7617\fnil NovaLightUltraCondSSK-Bold;}{\f7680\fnil ArtDecoSSK;}{\f7681\fnil ScrawlinSSK;}{\f7697\fnil ScrawlinLightSSK;}
{\f7738\fnil NovaUltraCondSSK;}{\f7838\fnil ArtDecoLightSSK;}{\f7936\fnil WedgieSSK;}{\f8020\fnil WedgieSSK-Bold;}{\f8652\fnil NovaExpandedSSK-BoldItalic;}{\f8732\fnil LCDOutlineSSK;}{\f8786\fnil NovaBlackSSK-Italic;}{\f8794\fnil NovaMediumSSK;}
{\f8838\fnil NovaLightCondSSK-Italic;}{\f9003\fnil WaifSSK;}{\f9123\fnil LegendaSSK;}{\f9216\fnil ElegansScriptSSK;}{\f9359\fnil ElegansScriptSSK-Bold;}{\f9973\fnil NovaBlackSSK;}{\f10179\fnil NovaSSK;}{\f10360\fnil SproutSSK;}{\f10593\fnil WiroCapsSSK;}
{\f10685\fnil AnticlaireDisplaySSK;}{\f10802\fnil Times New Roman MT Extra Bold;}{\f10893\fnil Pepita MT;}{\f11124\fnil LCDDisplayCapsSSK;}{\f11135\fnil Century Gothic Bold Italic;}{\f11136\fnil Century Gothic Bold;}{\f11137\fnil Century Gothic Italic;}
{\f11138\fnil Century Gothic;}{\f11139\fnil Bookman Old Style Bold Italic;}{\f11140\fnil Bookman Old Style Bold;}{\f11141\fnil Bookman Old Style Italic;}{\f11142\fnil Bookman Old Style;}{\f11143\fnil Book Antiqua Bold Italic;}
{\f11144\fnil Book Antiqua Bold;}{\f11145\fnil Book Antiqua Italic;}{\f11146\fnil Book Antiqua;}{\f11147\fnil Century Schoolbook Bold Italic;}{\f11148\fnil Century Schoolbook Bold;}{\f11149\fnil Century Schoolbook Italic;}
{\f11150\fnil Century Schoolbook;}{\f11220\fnil Arial Narrow Bold Italic;}{\f11221\fnil Arial Narrow Bold;}{\f11222\fnil Arial Narrow Italic;}{\f11270\fnil NovaCondSSK-Italic;}{\f11536\fnil PowWowSSK;}{\f11539\fnil AnticlaireSSK;}
{\f11610\fnil NovaBlackExpandedSSK;}{\f11650\fnil VAGRoundedLightSSK-Bold;}{\f12060\fnil MawSSK;}{\f12171\fnil Georgia;}{\f12288\fnil ShortHaulSSK;}{\f12366\fnil ShortHaulLightSSK;}{\f12917\fnil Ribbon131 Bd BT Bold;}{\f13102\fnil Tekton;}
{\f13220\fnil Parisian;}{\f13583\fnil SymbolSSK;}{\f14003\fnil TGEQM;}{\f14020\fnil NovaExpandedSSK;}{\f14302\fnil TGEQS;}{\f14402\fnil NovaBlackSSK-BoldItalic;}{\f14558\fnil Cheq;}{\f14562\fnil AGaramond;}{\f14563\fnil AGaramond Italic;}
{\f14570\fnil AGaramond BoldItalic;}{\f14571\fnil AGaramond Bold;}{\f14612\fnil VAG Rounded Thin;}{\f14614\fnil VAG Rounded Bold;}{\f14755\fnil B Kaufmann Bold;}{\f14756\fnil Kaufmann;}{\f14899\fnil Cooper Black;}{\f14900\fnil I Cooper Black Italic;}
{\f15009\fnil GillSans ExtraBold;}{\f15256\fnil Blackletter686 BT Regular;}{\f15266\fnil Brush738 BT Regular;}{\f15311\fnil BernhardMod BT Roman;}{\f15337\fnil ShelleyVolante BT Regular;}{\f15348\fnil CaslonOpnface BT Regular;}
{\f15389\fnil NovaBlackSSK-Bold;}{\f15423\fnil GeoSlab703 Lt BT Light;}{\f15434\fnil Humanst521 Lt BT Light;}{\f15436\fnil Humanst521 Cn BT Regular;}{\f15494\fnil Onyx BT Regular;}{\f16383\fnil Chicago;}}{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}{\stylesheet{\fi-360\li360 \f20 \sbasedon222\snext0 Normal;}{\s1\fi-270\li990\tx-720\tx990 \f2010\fs20 
\sbasedon0\snext1 Level2;}{\s2\fi-720\li720\tx-720\tx720 \f20\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext2 Level1;}{\s3\fi-360\li360\tx-720\tx360 \caps\f139\fs20 \sbasedon0\snext3 Article;}{\s5\fi-720\li720\tx-720\tx720 \caps\f20\fs20 \sbasedon2\snext5 Section;}}
\widowctrl\ftnbj \sectd \sbknone\linemod0\linex0\cols1\endnhere \pard\plain \qc\fi-360\li360 \f20 {\f139 BYLAW CHANGES\par 
FOR THE RESTRUCTURING PROPOSAL\par 
-- PRELIMINARY DRAFT (3/8/00) --\par 
}\pard \fi-360\li360 \par 
\pard The following is a first draft of some bylaw changes that would enable the structural changes outlined in the Restructuring Proposal (submitted for Spring 2000 Plenary). This is
 being offered for discussion purposes only and has not been formally reviewed by the Restructuring Working Group or the Bylaws Committee.\par 
\pard \fi-360\li360 \par 
The following changes are proposed:\par 
\par 
\pard \fi-360\li360 1)\tab Delete all of Article V, Section 8\line {\i The Function of General Assembly Committees in Meetings.}\par 
\pard \fi-360\li360 \par 
\pard \fi-360\li360 2)\tab Substitute all of Article VI,\line {\i Committees - Formation and Function}\par 
\pard \fi-360\li360 \par 
\pard \fi-360\li360 3)\tab Substitute most of Article VII (except Sections 1 and 10),\line {\i Standing Committees of the General Assembly}\par 
\pard \fi-360\li360 \par 
\pard \fi-360\li360 4)\tab Add new Article VIII,\line {\i Standing Working Groups of the General Assembly}\par 
\pard \fi-360\li360 \par 
Proposed new Articles VI and VII...\par 
\pard\plain \s3\fi-360\li360\tx-720\tx360 \caps\f139\fs20 {\f20 _____________________________________________________________________________________\par 
\par 
}\par 
Article VI:  Committees & Working Groups - Formation & Function.\par 
\pard\plain \fi-360\li360 \f20 {\fs20 \par 
}\pard\plain \s5\fi-720\li720\tx-720\tx720 \caps\f20\fs20 Section 6-1.  Definitions, Formation, and Membership\par 
\pard\plain \fi-360\li360 \f20 {\fs20 \par 
}\pard\plain \s2\fi-720\li720\tx-720\tx720 \f20\fs20 6\_1.1\tab Definitions\par 
\pard\plain \s1\fi-270\li990\tx-720\tx990 \f2010\fs20 a)\tab 
A Committee is a body of one or more persons, appointed by the Coordinating Committee or elected by the General Assembly, to consider, investigate, or take action on certain internal party matters considered sensitive enough to warrant
 special supervision, as defined in its charge.\par 
\pard \s1\fi-270\li990\tx-720\tx990 b)\tab A Working Group is a body of one or more persons willing to participate, to consider, investigate, or take action on certain external party matters as defined in its charge.\par 
c)\tab The abbreviated term, Groups, is used within these Bylaws to refer to both Committees and Working Groups but not Subcommittees.\par 
d)\tab A Standing Group is any Group defined within these bylaws and whose charge deals with recurring business of the party.\par 
\pard \s1\fi-270\li990\tx-720\tx990 e)\tab An Ad Hoc (or Special) Group is
 created by the General Assembly to consider non-recurring business of the party or is otherwise expected to dissolve itself after completing its charge. Ad Hoc Groups may be established or dissolved by a 2/3 vote of the General Assembly.\par 
\pard \s1\fi-270\li990\tx-720\tx990 f)\tab A Subcommittee may be established or dissolved by a 2/3 vote of the relevant Group. All subcommittees are ad hoc and are expected to dissolve themselves after completing their charge.\par 
\pard\plain \s2\fi-720\li720\tx-720\tx720 \f20\fs20 \par 
\pard \s2\fi-720\li720\tx-720\tx720 6\_1.2\tab Committee Membership\line Committees shall be comprised of no more than seven member
s. At least once a year or whenever vacancies exist, the active counties shall be given the opportunity to submit nominations for committee membership. Standing Committee members shall be appointed by the Coordinating Committee subject to confirmation by t
he General Assembly. Ad Hoc Committee members shall be elected by the General Assembly. Subcommittee members shall be elected by the Group which creates the subcommittee. Committee members shall serve for two years or until the committee is dissolved, whic
hever comes first. To facilitate continuity within Standing Committees, terms shall be staggered whenever possible. Any appointed or elected committee member can be recalled by an 80% vote of the CC or the General Assembly.\par 
\pard \s2\fi-720\li720\tx-720\tx720 \par 
\pard \s2\fi-720\li720\tx-720\tx720 6\_1.3\tab Working Group Membership\line 
Working Group membership shall be open to any Green Party member willing to participate. The expression of non stand aside concerns and voting privileges are reserved for those members who have attended or participated in at 
least one previous Working Group meeting within the previous 12 months.\par 
\pard \s2\fi-720\li720\tx-720\tx720 \par 
\pard \s2\fi-720\li720\tx-720\tx720 6\_1.4\tab Group Coordinator and Group Liaison to the Coordinating Committee\line 
Each Group shall be assigned a Coordinating Committee (CC) member by the CC to serve as Group Coordinator and Liaison to the CC. In addition to the CC appointed Coordinator/Liaison, th
e Group shall elect another Coordinator from among its membership subject to confirmation by the General Assembly. Coordinators shall serve for 18 months in staggered terms or until a successor is appointed or elected.\par 
\pard\plain \fi-360\li360 \f20 \par 
\pard\plain \s5\fi-720\li720\tx-720\tx720 \caps\f20\fs20 Section 6-2.  General Duties, Authority, and Functions.\par 
\pard\plain \s2\fi-720\li720\tx-720\tx720 \f20\fs20 \par 
\pard \s2\fi-720\li720\tx-720\tx720 6\_2.1\tab Work Plan\line 
Each Group shall prepare a yearly work plan to be submitted along with any budget requests. The work plan will identify what are the objectives of the Group for that year and what, if any, proposals it would want to bring before the General
 Assembly and a projected timeline for the Group\rquote s activities. The stated objectives must be congruent with the Group\rquote s Statement of Purpose and the Goals and Strategies of the GPCA.\par 
\pard \s2\fi-720\li720\tx-720\tx720 \par 
\pard \s2\fi-720\li720\tx-720\tx720 6\_2.2\tab Meetings and Deliberations\line 
Each Group shall determine for itself how many meetings are necessary to achieve the objectives outlined in its work plan. Each Group shall prepare and make public the proposed meeting agenda at least two weeks in advance of the mee
ting date. Any last minute agenda changes shall be for information items only and not for action. All deliberative and decision-making meetings shall be open to all Green Party members unless closed by a 2/3 vote of the membership. However, even closed mee
tings may be required by the General Assembly to publish the minutes of its proceedings. \par 
\pard \s2\fi-720\li720\tx-720\tx720 \par 
\pard \s2\fi-720\li720\tx-720\tx720 6\_2.3\tab Proposal Authority\line 
All proposals to be considered by the General Assembly must first be approved and presented by a Standing Committee or Standing Working Group. Exceptions may be allowed for proposals to be considered in the Consent Calendar (Paragraph 5\_9.11).\par 
\pard \s2\fi-720\li720\tx-720\tx720 \par 
\pard \s2\fi-720\li720\tx-720\tx720 6\_2.4\tab Proposal Presentation\line Groups will act in the role of advocate for the proposals they present to the General Assembly. The presenter will disclose
 to the General Assembly whether the Group brings the proposal forward with consensus or by a vote. If by a vote, the details of the vote will be presented.\par 
\pard \s2\fi-720\li720\tx-720\tx720 \par 
\pard \s2\fi-720\li720\tx-720\tx720 6\_2.5\tab Coordinator Duties\line The responsibilities of the Group Coordinators shall include:\par 
\pard\plain \s1\fi-270\li990\tx-720\tx990 \f2010\fs20 a)\tab Establishing the agenda of the Group;\par 
b)\tab Facilitating and coordinating the activities of the Group;\par 
d)\tab Presenting Group proposals or other official communications to the General Assembly;\par 
\pard \s1\fi-270\li990\tx-720\tx990 d)\tab Maintaining a physical notebook containing the Group\rquote s Statement of Purpose, membership information, meeting minutes, and any other documents relevant to the work of the Group;\par 
\pard \s1\fi-270\li990\tx-720\tx990 e)\tab 
Filing meeting agendas and minutes with the Coordinating Committee Secretary in a timely fashion including a summary report after the conclusion of a General Assembly meeting with general contact information, active membership list, and status report;
\par 
\pard \s1\fi-270\li990\tx-720\tx990 f)\tab Appointing an Temporary Acting Coordinator to perform the duties outlined above whenever they are unable to perform them and notifying the CC and the Group membership.\par 
\pard\plain \s2\fi-720\li720\tx-720\tx720 \f20\fs20 \par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\fi-360\li360\tx-720\tx360 \caps\f139\fs20 \page Article VII.  Standing Committees of the General Assembly\par 
\pard\plain \fi-360\li360 \f20 {\fs20 \par 
}\pard\plain \s5\fi-720\li720\tx-720\tx720 \caps\f20\fs20 Section 7-1.  Coordinating Committee (AKA the CC)\par 
\pard\plain \fi-360\li360 \f20 {\fs20 \par 
\tab [no change]\par 
\par 
}\pard\plain \s5\fi-720\li720\tx-720\tx720 \caps\f20\fs20 Section 7-2  Finance Committee (formerly Section 7-10)\par 
\pard\plain \fi-360\li360 \f20 {\fs20 \par 
}\pard\plain \s2\fi-720\li720\tx-720\tx720 \f20\fs20 7-2.1\tab Duties and Authority\line The Finance Committee is charged with overseeing the financial operations of the GPCA. This includes working with the Treasurer to:\par 
\pard\plain \s1\fi-270\li990\tx-720\tx990 \f2010\fs20 a)\tab Collect county dues to the GPCA and any other moneys allocated to the GPCA;\par 
b)\tab Facilitate the allocation and disbursement of funds;\par 
c)\tab Provide quarterly financial reports to the CC;\par 
d)\tab Provide an annual budget report to the plenary;\par 
e)\tab Provide any official reporting required by the State of California;\par 
f)\tab Be the conduit for GPCA fundraising activities.\par 
\pard\plain \fi-360\li360 \f20 \par 
\tab [the rest of the original Section 7-10 is not changed]\par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s5\fi-720\li720\tx-720\tx720 \caps\f20\fs20 Section 7-3.  Bylaws Committee\par 
\pard\plain \fi-360\li360 \f20 {\fs20 \par 
}\pard\plain \s2\fi-720\li720\tx-720\tx720 \f20\fs20 7-3.1\tab Duties and Authority\line 
The Bylaws Committee is charged with maintaining the GPCA Bylaws and assisting with their amendment or revision. All Bylaw amendment proposals must be reviewed by the Bylaws Committee before submission to the General Assembly.\par 
\pard\plain \fi-360\li360 \f20 \par 
\pard\plain \s2\fi-720\li720\tx-720\tx720 \f20\fs20 7-3.2\tab Bylaws Interpretation\line 
In cases of bylaw ambiguity or procedural disagreement, the General Assembly shall decide for itself the meaning of its bylaws or the appropriate procedure to be followed. In between General Assembly meetings, the Coordinating C
ommittee shall decide these questions subject to review at the next General Assembly meeting. The Bylaws Committee and its coordinators are charged with assisting with the interpretation of the Bylaws and the resolution of procedural questions.\par 
\pard\plain \fi-360\li360 \f20 \par 
\pard\plain \s5\fi-720\li720\tx-720\tx720 \caps\f20\fs20 Section 7-4.  Platform Committee\par 
\pard\plain \fi-360\li360 \f20 {\fs20 \par 
}\pard\plain \s2\fi-720\li720\tx-720\tx720 \f20\fs20 7-4.1\tab Duties and Authority\line The Platform Committee is charged with maintaining the Platform of the GPCA and assisting with it\rquote 
s amendment or revision. All platform proposals must be reviewed by the Platform Committee before submission to the General Assembly.\par 
\pard\plain \fi-360\li360 \f20 \par 
\pard\plain \s2\fi-720\li720\tx-720\tx720 \f20\fs20 7-4.2\tab Platform Research and Interpretation\line The Platform Committee shall endeavor to identify issues not in the platform and to suggest and formulate platform planks with substantial input f
rom appropriate experts in the field. The Platform Committee shall also assist the General Assembly, the Coordinating Committee, and the Media Spokespersons with formulating positions or statements on issues or initiatives related to official platform posi
tions.\par 
\pard\plain \fi-360\li360 \f20 \par 
\pard\plain \s5\fi-720\li720\tx-720\tx720 \caps\f20\fs20 Section 7-5.  International Protocol Committee\par 
\pard\plain \fi-360\li360 \f20 {\fs20 \par 
}\pard\plain \s2\fi-720\li720\tx-720\tx720 \f20\fs20 7-5.1\tab Duties and Authority\line The International Protocol Committee is charged with administrating, hosting, and networking with international Greens.\par 
\pard\plain \fi-360\li360 \f20 \par 
\pard\plain \s5\fi-720\li720\tx-720\tx720 \caps\f20\fs20 Section 7-6.  Clearinghouse Committee\par 
\pard\plain \fi-360\li360 \f20 {\fs20 \par 
}\pard\plain \s2\fi-720\li720\tx-720\tx720 \f20\fs20 7-6.1\tab Duties and Authority\line 
The Clearinghouse Committee is charged with maintaining an archive of all GPCA documents and data. The Clearinghouse Committee is also charged with facilitating internal and external communications and information dissemination including main
taining the GPCA website and returning communications received by phone, email, and postal mail.\par 
\pard\plain \fi-360\li360 \f20 \par 
\pard\plain \s2\fi-720\li720\tx-720\tx720 \f20\fs20 7-6.2\tab Ex Officio Members\par 
\pard\plain \s1\fi-270\li990\tx-720\tx990 \f2010\fs20 a)\tab The Liaison to the Secretary of State.\par 
b)\tab A webmaster appointed by the committee.\par 
\pard\plain \fi-360\li360 \f20 \par 
\par 
\pard\plain \s3\fi-360\li360\tx-720\tx360 \caps\f139\fs20 ARTICLE VIII.  STANDING WORKING GROUPS OF THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY \par 
\pard\plain \fi-360\li360 \f20 {\fs20 \par 
}\pard\plain \s5\fi-720\li720\tx-720\tx720 \caps\f20\fs20 Section 8-1.  Organizing and Outreach Working Group\par 
\pard\plain \fi-360\li360 \f20 {\fs20 \par 
}\pard\plain \s2\fi-720\li720\tx-720\tx720 \f20\fs20 8-1.1\tab Duties and Authority\line The Organizing & Outreach Working Group is charged with facilitating voter registration activities and organizing locals by:\par 
\pard\plain \s1\fi-270\li990\tx-720\tx990 \f2010\fs20 a)\tab Coordinating locals into statewide efforts to register Green Party voters and do public outreach through tabling;\par 
\pard \s1\fi-270\li990\tx-720\tx990 b)\tab Providing training for county locals in tabling;\par 
c)\tab Developing, maintaining, and providing resources for tabling efforts and organization of locals;\par 
d)\tab Maintaining lists of registered Green Party voters;\par 
e)\tab Publishing a statewide GPCA newsletter;\par 
\pard \s1\fi-270\li990\tx-720\tx990 f)\tab Engaging in direct mailings statewide to Green Party membership for purposes of fundraising and membership outreach.\par 
\pard\plain \fi-360\li360 \f20 \par 
\pard\plain \s5\fi-720\li720\tx-720\tx720 \caps\f20\fs20 Section 8-2.  Campaigns and Candidates Working Group\par 
\pard\plain \fi-360\li360 \f20 {\fs20 \par 
}\pard\plain \s2\fi-720\li720\tx-720\tx720 \f20\fs20 8-2.1\tab Duties\line 
To educate Green Party members about our electoral strategy with an emphasis on local initiatives that open up the system and local candidates who can win; to identify key political campaigns in which Green Party activists can play a pivotal rol
e; to educate Greens about the importance of running credible candidates in strategically chosen races and avoiding poor candidates and nonconstructive races; where appropriate, to identify registered Greens who would make credible candidates; to promote r
egional strategies for winning campaigns so that Greens avoid spreading resources too thinly; to train Green Party activists in methods of waging political campaigns either for candidates or for issues; and to raise money for Green Party campaigns.\par 
\pard\plain \fi-360\li360 \f20 \par 
\pard\plain \s5\fi-720\li720\tx-720\tx720 \caps\f20\fs20 Section 8-3.  Electoral Reform Working Group\par 
\pard\plain \fi-360\li360 \f20 {\fs20 \par 
}\pard\plain \s2\fi-720\li720\tx-720\tx720 \f20\fs20 8-3.1\tab Duties\line 
To educate Green Party members, the public and the media about electoral reforms that will open up the political system, including Proportional Representation, Instant Runoff Voting, and public financing of elections; to identify strategies fo
r enacting these reforms such as promoting the use of Proportional Representation for County Council elections; to encourage Greens to initiate or support successful local campaigns for electoral reform; and to advis
e GPCA of internal party voting mechanisms and electoral policy\par 
\pard\plain \fi-360\li360 \f20 \par 
\pard\plain \s5\fi-720\li720\tx-720\tx720 \caps\f20\fs20 Section 8-4.  Green Issues Working Group\par 
\pard\plain \fi-360\li360 \f20 {\fs20 \par 
}\pard\plain \s2\fi-720\li720\tx-720\tx720 \f20\fs20 8-4.1\tab Duties\line 
To identify current issues and events for which the GPCA or its platform has no position; to sponsor debate of issues that may impact the platform; to sponsor resolutions on current issues to be passed by the GPCA plenary body; when appropriat
e, to interface with the Platform Standing Committee and with candidates whom are running for office as Green Party members; and where appropriate, to build coalitions with other organizations.\par 
\pard\plain \fi-360\li360 \f20 \par 
}