{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\upr{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f4\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 02000500000000000000}Times;}{\f5\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 02000500000000000000}Helvetica;}{\f20\fnil\fcharset77\fprq0{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}B Helvetica Bold{\*\falt Times New Roman};}}{\*\ud{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f4\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 02000500000000000000}Times;}{\f5\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 02000500000000000000}Helvetica;}{\f20\fnil\fcharset77\fprq0{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}B Helvetica Bold{\*\falt Times New Roman};}}}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\cgrid \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\fi-270\li990\widctlpar\tx-720\tx990\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext15 Level2;}{\s16\fi-720\li720\widctlpar\tx-720\tx720\adjustright \f4\fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext16 Level1;}{\s17\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\tx-720\tx360\adjustright \caps\f20\fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext17 Article;}{\s18\fi-720\li720\widctlpar\tx-720\tx720\adjustright \caps\f4\fs20\cgrid \sbasedon16 \snext18 Section;}}{\info{\title BYLAW CHANGES}{\author TRUE}{\operator TRUE}{\creatim\yr2001\mo1\dy18\hr14\min47}{\revtim\yr2001\mo1\dy18\hr14\min47}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages5}{\nofwords2003}{\nofchars11422}{\*\company Cuyamaca College,   Physics Dept}{\nofcharsws14027}{\vern115}}\margl1440\margr1440 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphhotz0\sprstsp\otblrul\brkfrm\sprstsm\truncex\nolead\msmcap\lytprtmet\hyphcaps0\viewkind1\viewscale100 \fet0\sectd \sbknone\linex-32767\endnhere\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \qc\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\cgrid {\b\f5 Restructuring Proposal: Bylaw Amendments\par }{\f5 -- THIRD DRAFT (1/18/01) --\par }\pard \fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright {\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {The following is a third draft of some bylaw changes that would enable the structural changes outlined in the Restructuring Proposal (approved during the Spring 2000 Plenary).\par }\pard \fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright {\par The following changes are proposed:\par \par 1)\tab Delete all of Section 5-8,\line }{\i The Function of General Assembly Committees in Meetings.}{\par \par 2)\tab Substitute all of Article 6,\line }{\i Committees - Formation and Function}{\par \par 3)\tab Substitute most of Article 7 (except Sections 7-1 and 7-10),}{\i \line Committees of the General Assembly}{\par \par 4)\tab Add new Article 8,\line }{\i Working Groups of the General Assembly}{\par \par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\par Proposed new Articles 6, 7, and 8:\par }\pard\plain \s17\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\tx-720\tx360\adjustright \caps\f20\fs20\cgrid {\f4 _____________________________________________________________________________________\par \par }{\par Article 6:  Committees & Working Groups - Formation & Function.\par }\pard\plain \fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\cgrid {\fs20 \par }\pard\plain \s18\fi-720\li720\widctlpar\tx-720\tx720\adjustright \caps\f4\fs20\cgrid {Section 6-1.  Definitions, Formation, and Membership\par }\pard\plain \fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\cgrid {\fs20 \par }\pard\plain \s16\fi-720\li720\widctlpar\tx-720\tx720\adjustright \f4\fs20\cgrid {6\_1.1\tab Definitions\par }\pard\plain \s15\fi-270\li990\widctlpar\tx-720\tx990\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f4 a)\tab A }{\b\f4 Committee}{\f4  is a body established by the General Assembly or by another GPCA Committee, comprised of one or more persons appointed by the establishing body, to consider, investigate, or take action on certain matters considered sensitive enough to warrant special supervision as defined in its charge or statement of purpose.\par b)\tab A }{\b\f4 Working}{\f4  }{\b\f4 Group}{\f4  is a body established by the General Assembly, a Committee, or another Working Group, comprised of one or more non-appointed persons, to consider, investigate, or take action on certain matters as defined in its charge or statement of purpose.\par c)\tab The abbreviated term, }{\b\f4 Groups}{\f4 , is used within these Bylaws to refer to both Committees and Working Groups.\par d)\tab A }{\b\f4 Standing}{\f4  }{\b\f4 Group}{\f4  is any Committee or Working Group defined within these bylaws. Standing Groups are established to consider recurring business of the party.\par e)\tab A }{\b\f4 Special}{\f4  }{\b\f4 Group}{\f4  is any Committee or Working Group not defined within these bylaws. Special Groups are established to consider non-recurring business of the party or are otherwise expected to dissolve themselves after completing their charge.\par }\pard\plain \s16\fi-720\li720\widctlpar\tx-720\tx720\adjustright \f4\fs20\cgrid {\par 6\_1.2\tab Formation of Standing Groups\line Standing Groups must be defined within these bylaws. Establishing a new Standing Group or dissolving a current Standing Group requires an amendment to these bylaws (see Article 9).\par \par 6\_1.3\tab Formation of Special Groups\line Special Groups may be established by the General Assembly or another Group with a 2/3 vote. The statement of purpose or charge of the group must be stated at the time of formation. A Special Group may be dissolved with a 2/3 vote of the establishing body but, in any case, is automatically dissolved two years after its establishment or after completing its charge, whichever comes first. Expiring Special Groups may be reestablished at the discretion of the establishing body\par \par 6\_1.4\tab Standing Committee Membership\line Coordinating Committee (CC) membership is defined in Section 7-1.  Other Standing Committees shall be comprised of no more than seven members counting the CC Liaison (see paragraph 6-1.7). At least once a year or whenever vacancies exist, the active counties, group coordinators, and individual CC members shall be given the opportunity to submit nominations or recommendations to the Coordinating Committee for committee membership. Eligible candidates must have attended at least two prior State Plenaries within the previous 12 months and demonstrate a working knowledge of the State Party Bylaws and operating procedures. Standing Committee members shall be appointed by the Coordinating Committee subject to confirmation by the General Assembly. Members shall serve for two years in staggered terms whenever possible. Any Standing Committee member can be recalled with an 2/3 vote of the CC.\par \par 6\_1.5\tab Special Committee Membership\line Special Committee members shall be elected by the body which established the committee. Committee members shall serve for two years or until the committee is dissolved, whichever comes first. Any committee member can be recalled with an 2/3 vote of the body which appointed or elected the member.\par \par 6\_1.6\tab Working Group Membership (Standing and Special)\line Working Group membership shall be open to any Green Party member willing to participate. The expression of non stand aside concerns and voting privileges are reserved for those members who have attended or participated in at least one Working Group meeting within the previous 12 months.\par \par 6\_1.7\tab Standing Group Liaison to the Coordinating Committee\line Each Standing Group shall be assigned a Coordinating Committee (CC) member by the CC to serve as Liaison to the CC, an ex-officio voting member of the Group. The Liaison is charged with facilitating communications between the Group and the CC. Liaisons appointed to Standing Committees also serve as the Committee's Coordinator (see Coordinator duties, paragraph 6-2.7).\par \par 6-1.8\tab Group Coordinators (Standing and Special)\line In addition to any CC appointed Liaison/Coordinators, the Group }{\b shall}{ elect a Co-Coordinator and }{\b may}{ elect additional Co-Coordinators from among its membership subject to confirmation by the General Assembly (see Coordinator duties, paragraph 6-2.7). Elected Coordinators shall serve for two years in staggered terms or until a successor is appointed or elected.\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \f4\cgrid {\fs20 \par }\pard\plain \s18\fi-720\li720\widctlpar\tx-720\tx720\adjustright \caps\f4\fs20\cgrid {\page Section 6-2.  General Duties, Authority, and Functions.\par }\pard\plain \s16\fi-720\li720\widctlpar\tx-720\tx720\adjustright \f4\fs20\cgrid {\par 6\_2.1\tab Work Plan\line Each Group shall prepare a yearly work plan to be submitted to the Coordinating Committee along with any budget requests. The work plan will identify the objectives of the Group for that year, any proposals it foresees bringing before the General Assembly, and a projected timeline for the Group\rquote s activities. The stated objectives must be congruent with the Group\rquote s Statement of Purpose and the Goals and Strategies of the GPCA.\par \par 6\_2.2\tab Meetings and Deliberations\line Each Group shall determine for itself how many meetings are necessary to achieve the objectives outlined in its work plan. Each Group shall prepare and announce the proposed meeting agenda at least two weeks in advance of the meeting date. Any last minute agenda changes shall be for information items only and not for action. All deliberative and decision-making meetings shall be open to all Green Party members unless closed by a 2/3 vote of the membership. However, even closed meetings may be required by the General Assembly to publish the minutes of its proceedings. \par \par 6\_2.3\tab Quorum\line Quorum is 50% of the Group's voting membership. For meetings properly announced in the agenda distributed prior to a regular meeting of the General Assembly, quorum is satisfied as long as a group coordinator and at least two voting members are present.\par \par 6-2.4\tab Decision-making\line The decision-making process in groups may be informal but, in general, should follow a consensus-seeking process similar to that described in Section 5-9. Groups may not decide issues or commit resources which the Group is not authorized to decide or commit.\par \par 6\_2.5\tab Proposal Authority\line All proposals to be considered by the General Assembly must first be approved and presented by a Standing Committee or Standing Working Group. Exceptions may be allowed for proposals to be considered in the Consent Calendar (Paragraph 5\_9.11).\par \par 6\_2.6\tab Proposal Presentation\line Groups will act in the role of advocate for the proposals they present to the General Assembly. The presenter will disclose to the General Assembly whether the Group brings the proposal forward with consensus or by a vote. If by a vote, the details of the vote will be presented.\par \par 6\_2.7\tab Coordinator Duties\line The responsibilities of the Group Coordinators shall include:\par }\pard\plain \s15\fi-270\li990\widctlpar\tx-720\tx990\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f4 a)\tab Establishing the agenda of the Group;\par b)\tab Facilitating and coordinating the activities of the Group;\par c)\tab Presenting Group proposals or other official communications to the General Assembly;\par d)\tab Maintaining a physical notebook containing the Group\rquote s Statement of Purpose, membership information, meeting minutes, and any other documents relevant to the work of the Group;\par e)\tab Filing meeting agendas and minutes with the Coordinating Committee Secretary in a timely fashion including a summary report after the conclusion of a General Assembly meeting with general contact information, active membership list, and status report;\par f)\tab Designating a temporary Acting Coordinator to perform the duties outlined above whenever an official coordinator is unable to perform those duties, and notifying the CC and Group membership accordingly.\par }\pard\plain \s16\fi-720\li720\widctlpar\tx-720\tx720\adjustright \f4\fs20\cgrid {\par \par }\pard\plain \s17\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\tx-720\tx360\adjustright \caps\f20\fs20\cgrid {\page Article 7.  Standing Committees of the General Assembly\par }\pard\plain \fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\cgrid {\fs20 \par }\pard\plain \s18\fi-720\li720\widctlpar\tx-720\tx720\adjustright \caps\f4\fs20\cgrid {Section 7-1.  Coordinating Committee (AKA the CC)\par }\pard\plain \fi720\li720\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\cgrid {\fs20 \par }\pard \li360\widctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 [no change] \par }\pard \li720\widctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 \par }\pard\plain \s18\fi-720\li720\widctlpar\tx-720\tx720\adjustright \caps\f4\fs20\cgrid {Section 7-2  Finance Committee (formerly Section 7-10)\par }\pard\plain \fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\cgrid {\fs20 \par }\pard\plain \s16\fi-720\li720\widctlpar\tx-720\tx720\adjustright \f4\fs20\cgrid {7-2.1\tab Duties and Authority\line The Finance Committee is charged with overseeing the financial operations of the GPCA. This includes working with the Treasurer to:\par }\pard\plain \s15\fi-270\li990\widctlpar\tx-720\tx990\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f4 a)\tab Collect county dues and any other moneys owed to the GPCA;\par b)\tab Facilitate the allocation and disbursement of funds;\par c)\tab Provide quarterly financial reports to the CC;\par d)\tab Provide an annual budget report to the plenary;\par e)\tab Provide any official reporting required by the State of California;\par f)\tab Be the conduit for GPCA fundraising activities.\par }\pard\plain \fi720\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\cgrid {\fs20 \par }\pard \li360\widctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 [the rest of the original Section 7-10 is not changed]\par }\pard \fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 \par }\pard\plain \s18\fi-720\li720\widctlpar\tx-720\tx720\adjustright \caps\f4\fs20\cgrid {Section 7-3.  Bylaws Committee\par }\pard\plain \fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\cgrid {\fs20 \par }\pard\plain \s16\fi-720\li720\widctlpar\tx-720\tx720\adjustright \f4\fs20\cgrid {7-3.1\tab Duties and Authority\line The Bylaws Committee is charged with maintaining the GPCA Bylaws and assisting with their amendment or revision. All Bylaw amendment proposals must be reviewed by the Bylaws Committee before submission to the General Assembly.\par }\pard\plain \fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\cgrid {\fs20 \par }\pard\plain \s16\fi-720\li720\widctlpar\tx-720\tx720\adjustright \f4\fs20\cgrid {7-3.2\tab Bylaws Interpretation\line In cases of bylaw ambiguity or procedural disagreement, the General Assembly shall decide for itself the meaning of its bylaws or the appropriate procedure to be followed. In between General Assembly meetings, the Coordinating Committee shall decide these questions subject to review at the next General Assembly meeting. The Bylaws Committee and its coordinators are charged with assisting with the interpretation of the Bylaws and the resolution of procedural questions.\par }\pard\plain \fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\cgrid {\fs20 \par }\pard\plain \s18\fi-720\li720\widctlpar\tx-720\tx720\adjustright \caps\f4\fs20\cgrid {Section 7-4.  Platform Committee\par }\pard\plain \fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\cgrid {\fs20 \par }\pard\plain \s16\fi-720\li720\widctlpar\tx-720\tx720\adjustright \f4\fs20\cgrid {7-4.1\tab Duties and Authority\line The Platform Committee is charged with maintaining the Platform of the GPCA and assisting with it\rquote s amendment or revision. All platform proposals must be reviewed by the Platform Committee before submission to the General Assembly.\par }\pard\plain \fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\cgrid {\fs20 \par }\pard\plain \s16\fi-720\li720\widctlpar\tx-720\tx720\adjustright \f4\fs20\cgrid {7-4.2\tab Platform Research and Interpretation\line The Platform Committee shall endeavor to identify issues not in the platform and to suggest and formulate platform planks with substantial input from appropriate experts in the field. The Platform Committee shall also assist the General Assembly, the Coordinating Committee, and the Media Spokespersons with formulating positions or statements on issues or initiatives related to official platform positions.\par }\pard\plain \fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\cgrid {\fs20 \par }\pard\plain \s18\fi-720\li720\widctlpar\tx-720\tx720\adjustright \caps\f4\fs20\cgrid {Section 7-5.  International Protocol Committee\par }\pard\plain \fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\cgrid {\fs20 \par }\pard\plain \s16\fi-720\li720\widctlpar\tx-720\tx720\adjustright \f4\fs20\cgrid {7-5.1\tab Duties and Authority\line The International Protocol Committee is charged with administrating, hosting, and networking with international Greens.\par }\pard\plain \fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\cgrid {\fs20 \par }\pard\plain \s18\fi-720\li720\widctlpar\tx-720\tx720\adjustright \caps\f4\fs20\cgrid {\page Section 7-6.  Clearinghouse Committee\par }\pard\plain \fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\cgrid {\fs20 \par }\pard\plain \s16\fi-720\li720\widctlpar\tx-720\tx720\adjustright \f4\fs20\cgrid {7-6.1\tab Duties and Authority\line The Clearinghouse Committee is charged with maintaining an archive of all GPCA documents and data. The Clearinghouse Committee is also charged with facilitating internal and external communications and information dissemination including maintaining the GPCA website and returning communications received by phone, email, and postal mail.\par }\pard\plain \fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\cgrid {\fs20 \par }\pard\plain \s16\fi-720\li720\widctlpar\tx-720\tx720\adjustright \f4\fs20\cgrid {7-6.2\tab Ex Officio Members\par }\pard\plain \s15\fi-270\li990\widctlpar\tx-720\tx990\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f4 a)\tab The Liaison to the Secretary of State.\par b)\tab A webmaster appointed by the committee.\par }\pard\plain \fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\cgrid {\fs20 \par }\pard\plain \s17\widctlpar\tx-720\tx360\adjustright \caps\f20\fs20\cgrid {ARTICLE 8.  STANDING WORKING GROUPS OF THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY \par }\pard\plain \fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\cgrid {\fs20 \par }\pard\plain \s18\fi-720\li720\widctlpar\tx-720\tx720\adjustright \caps\f4\fs20\cgrid {Section 8-1.  Organizing and Outreach Working Group\par }\pard\plain \fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\cgrid {\fs20 \par }\pard\plain \s16\fi-720\li720\widctlpar\tx-720\tx720\adjustright \f4\fs20\cgrid {8-1.1\tab Duties and Authority\line The Organizing & Outreach Working Group is charged with facilitating voter registration activities and organizing locals by:\par }\pard\plain \s15\fi-270\li990\widctlpar\tx-720\tx990\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f4 a)\tab Coordinating locals into statewide efforts to register Green Party voters and do public outreach through tabling;\par b)\tab Providing training for county locals in tabling;\par c)\tab Developing, maintaining, and providing resources for tabling efforts and organization of locals;\par d)\tab Maintaining lists of registered Green Party voters;\par e)\tab Publishing a statewide GPCA newsletter;\par f)\tab Engaging in direct mailings statewide to Green Party membership for purposes of fundraising and membership outreach.\par }\pard\plain \fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\cgrid {\fs20 \par }\pard\plain \s18\fi-720\li720\widctlpar\tx-720\tx720\adjustright \caps\f4\fs20\cgrid {Section 8-2.  Campaigns and Candidates Working Group\par }\pard\plain \fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\cgrid {\fs20 \par }\pard\plain \s16\fi-720\li720\widctlpar\tx-720\tx720\adjustright \f4\fs20\cgrid {8-2.1\tab Duties\line To educate Green Party members about our electoral strategy with an emphasis on local initiatives that open up the political system and local candidates who have a favorable chance of winning election; to identify key political campaigns in which Green Party activists can play a pivotal role; to educate Greens about the importance of running credible candidates in strategically chosen races and avoiding poor candidates and nonconstructive races; where appropriate, to identify registered Greens who would make credible candidates; to promote regional strategies for winning campaigns so that Greens avoid spreading resources too thinly; to train Green Party activists in methods of waging political campaigns either for candidates or for issues; and to raise money for Green Party campaigns.\par }\pard\plain \fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\cgrid {\fs20 \par }\pard\plain \s18\fi-720\li720\widctlpar\tx-720\tx720\adjustright \caps\f4\fs20\cgrid {Section 8-3.  Electoral Reform Working Group\par }\pard\plain \fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\cgrid {\fs20 \par }\pard\plain \s16\fi-720\li720\widctlpar\tx-720\tx720\adjustright \f4\fs20\cgrid {8-3.1\tab Duties\line To educate Green Party members, the public and the media about electoral reforms that will open up the political system, including Proportional Representation, Instant Runoff Voting, and public financing of elections; to identify strategies for enacting these reforms such as promoting the use of Proportional Representation for County Council elections; to encourage Greens to initiate or support successful local campaigns for electoral reform; and to advise GPCA on internal party voting mechanisms and electoral policy\par }\pard\plain \fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\cgrid {\fs20 \par }\pard\plain \s18\fi-720\li720\widctlpar\tx-720\tx720\adjustright \caps\f4\fs20\cgrid {Section 8-4.  Green Issues Working Group\par }\pard\plain \fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\cgrid {\fs20 \par }\pard\plain \s16\fi-720\li720\widctlpar\tx-720\tx720\adjustright \f4\fs20\cgrid {8-4.1\tab Duties\line To identify current issues and events for which the GPCA or its platform has no position; to sponsor debate of issues that may impact the platform; to sponsor resolutions on current issues to be passed by the GPCA General Assembly; when appropriate, to interface with the Platform Standing Committee and with candidates who are running for office as Green Party members; and where appropriate, to build coalitions with other organizations.\par }}