{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\upr{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f3\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 02000500000000000000}Symbol;}{\f4\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 02000500000000000000}Times;}{\f5\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 02000500000000000000}Helvetica;}{\f20\fnil\fcharset77\fprq0{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}B Helvetica Bold{\*\falt Times New Roman};}}{\*\ud{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f3\fnil\fcharset2\fprq2{\*\panose 02000500000000000000}Symbol;}{\f4\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 02000500000000000000}Times;}{\f5\fnil\fcharset256\fprq2{\*\panose 02000500000000000000}Helvetica;}{\f20\fnil\fcharset77\fprq0{\*\panose 00000000000000000000}B Helvetica Bold{\*\falt Times New Roman};}}}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\cgrid \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}{\s15\fi-270\li990\widctlpar\tx-720\tx990\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext15 Level2;}{\s16\fi-720\li720\widctlpar\tx-720\tx720\adjustright \f4\fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext16 Level1;}{\s17\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\tx-720\tx360\adjustright \caps\f20\fs20\cgrid \sbasedon0 \snext17 Article;}{\s18\fi-720\li720\widctlpar\tx-720\tx720\adjustright \caps\f4\fs20\cgrid \sbasedon16 \snext18 Section;}}{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid0\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li1800\jclisttab\tx1800 }{\listname ;}\listid-132}{\list\listtemplateid0\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li1440\jclisttab\tx1440 }{\listname ;}\listid-131}{\list\listtemplateid0\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li1080\jclisttab\tx1080 }{\listname ;}\listid-130}{\list\listtemplateid0\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\jclisttab\tx720 }{\listname ;}\listid-129}{\list\listtemplateid0\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc23\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\u-3913 _;}{\levelnumbers;}\f3\fbias0 \fi-360\li1800\jclisttab\tx1800 }{\listname ;}\listid-128}{\list\listtemplateid0\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc23\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\u-3913 _;}{\levelnumbers;}\f3\fbias0 \fi-360\li1440\jclisttab\tx1440 }{\listname ;}\listid-127}{\list\listtemplateid0\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc23\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\u-3913 _;}{\levelnumbers;}\f3\fbias0 \fi-360\li1080\jclisttab\tx1080 }{\listname ;}\listid-126}{\list\listtemplateid0\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc23\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\u-3913 _;}{\levelnumbers;}\f3\fbias0 \fi-360\li720\jclisttab\tx720 }{\listname ;}\listid-125}{\list\listtemplateid0\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc0\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li360\jclisttab\tx360 }{\listname ;}\listid-120}{\list\listtemplateid0\listsimple{\listlevel\levelnfc23\leveljc0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'01\u-3913 _;}{\levelnumbers;}\f3\fbias0 \fi-360\li360\jclisttab\tx360 }{\listname ;}\listid-119}}{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid-119\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid-125\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid-126\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid-127\listoverridecount0\ls4}{\listoverride\listid-128\listoverridecount0\ls5}{\listoverride\listid-120\listoverridecount0\ls6}{\listoverride\listid-129\listoverridecount0\ls7}{\listoverride\listid-130\listoverridecount0\ls8}{\listoverride\listid-131\listoverridecount0\ls9}{\listoverride\listid-132\listoverridecount0\ls10}}{\info{\title BYLAW CHANGES}{\author TRUE}{\operator TRUE}{\creatim\yr2001\mo3\dy12\hr10\min5}{\revtim\yr2001\mo3\dy12\hr10\min5}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages6}{\nofwords2580}{\nofchars14710}{\*\company Cuyamaca College,   Physics Dept}{\nofcharsws18064}{\vern115}}\margl1296\margr1296\margt1008\margb1008 \widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphhotz0\sprstsp\otblrul\brkfrm\sprstsm\truncex\nolead\msmcap\lytprtmet\hyphcaps0\viewkind1\viewscale100 \fet0\sectd \sbknone\linex-32767\endnhere\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\cgrid {\b\f5 Bylaws Proposal: Restructuring\par }{\fs22 (draft 8, 3/12/2001)\par \par Contact: Ricardo Newbery, newbery@greens.org, 619.286.5807 \par }{\par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 The following are some proposed bylaw amendments drafted by the Bylaws Committee to enable the structural changes outlined in the Restructuring Proposal approved during the Spring 2000 Plenary.\par \par The Bylaws Committee has attempted to translate the original proposal language into a format appropriate for bylaws. In some cases, the committee created new definitions or new language to fulfill the intent of the original proposal and to address some concerns raised during the draft process. All significant committee concerns and most non-committee concerns have been addressed and the final draft has been approved by consensus of the committee. A few non-committee concerns remain unresolved and are listed below.\par \par A concern was raised about paragraph 6-1.6 which states a requirement for two WG meetings. In original Restructuring proposal, this was "must have attended one previous WG session." Bylaws Committee recommends requiring attendance in least two WG meetings to make it easier for a WG meeting to satisfy a quorum.\par \par A concern was raised about paragraph 6-2.2 which states that "new" agenda items shall be for information only and not for action. It was felt that this would hamper the ability of groups to take action on new matters. The Bylaws Committee recommends requiring at least two weeks notice for any action to give potential stakeholders fair notice of the impending decision.\par \par A concern was raised about various group "duties and authorities" in Article 8 (and maybe Article 7). It was felt that too much of the original Restructuring proposal "mission statement" language was left out and that this was important language written specifically to help the groups focus and prioritize in the directions detailed within the statements (two specific examples are noted within the text of this proposal). The Bylaws Committee feels that much of this language was not intended or appropriate for bylaws rules and recommends that the bylaws should clearly and succinctly define what is delegated to the group without going into unnecessary and unenforceable detail. In this draft, overly-specific language which didn't help restrict or expand the charge of the groups was trimmed or reworded. The committee suggests that all groups are free to draft a more elaborate mission statement, independent of the bylaws, as long as it doesn't limit or exceed its bylaw charge.\par }\pard \fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 \par The following changes are proposed:\par \par 1)\tab Delete all of Section 5-8,\line }{\i\fs22 The Function of General Assembly Committees in Meetings.}{\fs22 \par \par 2)\tab Substitute all of Article 6,\line }{\i\fs22 Committees - Formation and Function}{\fs22 \par \par 3)\tab Substitute most of Article 7 (except Sections 7-1 and 7-10),}{\i\fs22 \line Committees of the General Assembly}{\fs22 \par \par 4)\tab Add new Article 8,\line }{\i\fs22 Working Groups of the General Assembly}{\fs22 \par \par }\pard \widctlpar\adjustright {\fs22 \par The text of the proposed new Articles 6, 7, and 8 follow.}{\par }\pard\plain \s17\fi-360\li360\widctlpar\tx-720\tx360\adjustright \caps\f20\fs20\cgrid {\f4 \par }{\par }\pard\plain \s18\widctlpar\tx-720\tx720\adjustright \caps\f4\fs20\cgrid {\page Article 6:  Committees & Working Groups - Formation & Function.\par }\pard\plain \fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\cgrid {\fs20 \par }\pard\plain \s18\fi-720\li720\widctlpar\tx-720\tx720\adjustright \caps\f4\fs20\cgrid {Section 6-1.  Definitions, Formation, and Membership\par }\pard\plain \fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\cgrid {\fs20 \par }\pard\plain \s16\fi-720\li720\widctlpar\tx-720\tx720\adjustright \f4\fs20\cgrid {6\_1.1\tab Definitions\par }\pard\plain \s15\fi-270\li990\widctlpar\tx-720\tx990\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f4 a)\tab A }{\b\f4 Committee}{\f4  is a body established by the General Assembly or by another GPCA Committee, composed of one or more persons appointed by the establishing body, to consider, investigate, or take action on certain matters considered sensitive enough to warrant special supervision as defined in its charge.\par b)\tab A }{\b\f4 Working}{\f4  }{\b\f4 Group}{\f4  is a body established by the General Assembly, a Committee, or another Working Group, composed of one or more non-appointed persons, to consider, investigate, or take action on certain matters as defined in its charge.\par c)\tab The abbreviated term, }{\b\f4 Groups}{\f4 , is used within these Bylaws to refer to both Committees and Working Groups.\par d)\tab A }{\b\f4 Standing}{\f4  }{\b\f4 Group}{\f4  is any Committee or Working Group defined within these bylaws. Standing Groups are established to consider recurring business of the party and have General Assembly agenda privileges (see proposal authority, paragraph 6-2.5).\par e)\tab A }{\b\f4 Special}{\f4  }{\b\f4 Group}{\f4  is any Committee or Working Group not defined within these bylaws. Special Groups are ad hoc Groups established to consider non-recurring business of the party or are otherwise expected to dissolve themselves after completing their charge. Special Groups do not have General Assembly agenda privileges (see proposal authority, paragraph 6-2.5).\par }\pard\plain \s16\fi-720\li720\widctlpar\tx-720\tx720\adjustright \f4\fs20\cgrid {\par 6\_1.2\tab Formation of Standing Groups\line Standing Groups must be defined within these bylaws. Establishing a new Standing Group or dissolving a current Standing Group requires an amendment to these bylaws (see Article 9).\par \par 6\_1.3\tab Formation of Special Groups\line Special Groups may be established by the General Assembly or another Group with a 2/3 vote. The statement of purpose or charge of the group must be stated at the time of formation. A Special Group may be dissolved with a 2/3 vote of the establishing body, but in any case, is automatically dissolved two years after its establishment or after completing its charge, whichever comes first. Expiring Special Groups may be reestablished at the discretion of the establishing body.\par \par 6\_1.4\tab Standing Committee Membership\line Coordinating Committee (CC) membership is defined in Section 7-1. Other Standing Committees shall be composed of no more than eight members not including ex-officio members (see ex-officio members, paragraph 6-1.7). At least once a year or whenever vacancies exist, the active counties, Group coordinators, and individual CC members shall be given the opportunity to submit nominations or recommendations to the Coordinating Committee for committee membership. Eligible candidates must have attended at least two prior plenaries within the previous 12 months and demonstrate a working knowledge of the GPCA bylaws and operating procedures. Standing Committee members shall be appointed by the Coordinating Committee and shall serve for two years or the remainder of the current term. Terms begin and end at the start of the second plenary of each year and must be staggered whenever possible. Members appointed more than 12 months after the start of the current term shall serve for the remainder of the current term plus two more years. Any Standing Committee member may be recalled with an 2/3 vote of the CC.\par \par 6\_1.5\tab Special Committee Membership\line Special Committee members shall be elected by the body which established the committee. Committee members shall serve for two years or until the committee is dissolved, whichever comes first. Any committee member may be recalled with an 2/3 vote of the body which appointed or elected the member.\par \par 6\_1.6\tab Working Group Membership (Standing and Special)\line Working Group membership shall be open to any Green Party member willing to participate. Voting privileges are reserved for those members who have attended or participated in at least two Working Group meetings within the previous 12 months (except for the first two meetings of a newly formed Group).\line *** Unresolved concern, see introductory text ***\par \par \page 6-1.7\tab Ex-Officio Members\line Ex-officio members are Group members by virtue of office as defined in these bylaws or in the Group's charge. Ex-officio members have all the privileges of other Group members, including the right to vote, but not the obligation to attend meetings regularly. Unless present, ex-officio members are not counted in determining a quorum.\par \par 6\_1.8\tab Standing Group Liaison to the Coordinating Committee\line Each Standing Group shall be assigned a Coordinating Committee (CC) member by the CC to serve as liaison to the CC, an ex-officio member of the Group. The liaison is charged with facilitating communications between the Group and the CC. Liaisons appointed to Standing Committees also serve as one of the committee coordinators (see group coordinators, paragraph 6-1.9).\par \par 6-1.9\tab Group Coordinators (Standing and Special)\line All Groups shall possess two coordinators (see coordinator duties, paragraph 6-2.6). Standing Committees shall elect one coordinator from among its membership in addition to the CC-appointed liaison-coordinator. All other Groups shall elect two coordinators from among its membership. Elected coordinators shall take office upon confirmation by the General Assembly and, while still eligible, shall serve for two years in staggered terms whenever possible or until a successor is elected and confirmed.\par }\pard\plain \s18\fi-720\li720\widctlpar\tx-720\tx720\adjustright \caps\f4\fs20\cgrid {\page Section 6-2.  General Duties, Authority, and Functions.\par }\pard\plain \s16\fi-720\li720\widctlpar\tx-720\tx720\adjustright \f4\fs20\cgrid {\par 6\_2.1\tab Group Work Plan\line Each Group shall prepare a yearly work plan to be submitted to the Coordinating Committee along with any budget requests. The work plan must identify the objectives of the Group for that year, any proposals it foresees bringing before the General Assembly, and a projected timeline for the Group\rquote s activities. The stated objectives must be congruent with the Group\rquote s Statement of Purpose and the Goals and Strategies of the GPCA.\par \par 6\_2.2\tab Group Meetings and Deliberations\line Each Group shall determine how many meetings are necessary to achieve the objectives outlined in its work plan. Each Group shall prepare and announce the proposed meeting agenda at least two weeks in advance of the meeting date. New agenda items announced after this date shall be for information only and not for action. All deliberative and decision-making meetings shall be open to all Green Party members unless closed by a 2/3 vote of the membership. However, Groups may be required by the General Assembly or the CC to produce detailed minutes of a closed meeting. \line *** Unresolved concern, see introductory text ***\par \par 6\_2.3\tab Group Quorum\line A quorum is more than 1/2 of a Group's voting membership. For Working Group meetings properly announced in the agenda distributed prior to a regular meeting of the General Assembly, a quorum is more than 1/2 of the voting membership OR one Group coordinator and at least four additional voting members, whichever is fewer.\par \par 6-2.4\tab Group Decision-Making\line The decision-making process in Groups may be informal but must be consistent where feasible with the process described in Section 5-9. Proxy votes are not allowed.\par \par }\pard \s16\fi-720\li720\widctlpar\tx-720\tx720\tx2610\adjustright {6\_2.5\tab Proposal Authority\line All proposals to be considered by the General Assembly must first be approved and presented by a Standing Committee or Standing Working Group. These Groups shall act in the role of advocate for the proposals they present to the General Assembly. The presenter shall disclose to the General Assembly whether the Group brings the proposal forward with consensus or by a vote. If by a vote, the details of the vote shall be disclosed.\par }\pard \s16\widctlpar\tx-720\tx720\adjustright {\par }\pard \s16\fi-720\li720\widctlpar\tx-720\tx720\adjustright {6\_2.6\tab Group Coordinator Duties\line The responsibilities of the Group coordinators shall include:\par }\pard\plain \s15\fi-270\li990\widctlpar\tx-720\tx990\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f4 a)\tab Preparing and announcing the proposed agenda for a Group meeting;\par b)\tab Facilitating and coordinating the activities of the Group;\par c)\tab Submitting Group work plans and budgets to the Coordinating Committee;\par d)\tab Presenting Group proposals or other official communications to the General Assembly;\par e)\tab Maintaining a physical notebook containing the Group\rquote s Statement of Purpose, membership information, meeting minutes, and any other documents relevant to the work of the Group;\par f)\tab Filing meeting agendas and minutes with the Coordinating Committee secretary in a timely fashion including a summary report after the conclusion of a General Assembly meeting with general contact information, active membership list, and status report;\par g)\tab Designating a temporary acting coordinator to perform the duties outlined above whenever an official coordinator is unable to perform those duties, and notifying the CC and Group membership accordingly.\par }\pard\plain \s16\fi-720\li720\widctlpar\tx-720\tx720\adjustright \f4\fs20\cgrid {\par \par }\pard\plain \s18\fi-720\li720\widctlpar\tx-720\tx720\adjustright \caps\f4\fs20\cgrid {\page Article 7.  Standing Committees of the General Assembly\par }\pard\plain \li720\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\cgrid {\fs20 \par }\pard\plain \s18\fi-720\li720\widctlpar\tx-720\tx720\adjustright \caps\f4\fs20\cgrid {Section 7-2  Finance Committee (formerly Section 7-10)\par }\pard\plain \fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\cgrid {\fs20 \par }\pard\plain \s16\fi-720\li720\widctlpar\tx-720\tx720\adjustright \f4\fs20\cgrid {7-2.1\tab Duties and Authority\line The Finance Committee is charged with overseeing the financial operations of the GPCA. This includes working with the Treasurer to:\par }\pard\plain \s15\fi-270\li990\widctlpar\tx-720\tx990\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f4 a)\tab Collect county dues and any other moneys owed to the GPCA;\par b)\tab Facilitate the allocation and disbursement of funds;\par c)\tab Provide quarterly financial reports to the CC;\par d)\tab Provide an annual budget report to the General Assembly;\par e)\tab Provide any official reporting required by the State of California;\par f)\tab Provide assistance for GPCA fundraising activities.\par }\pard\plain \s16\fi-720\li720\widctlpar\tx-720\tx720\adjustright \f4\fs20\cgrid {\par 7-2.2\tab Ex Officio Member\par }\pard\plain \s15\fi-270\li990\widctlpar\tx-720\tx990\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f4 The Treasurer is an ex officio member of the Finance Committee.\par }\pard\plain \li360\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\cgrid {\fs20  [the rest of the original Section 7-10 is not changed]\par }\pard \fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 \par }\pard\plain \s18\fi-720\li720\widctlpar\tx-720\tx720\adjustright \caps\f4\fs20\cgrid {Section 7-3.  Bylaws Committee\par }\pard\plain \fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\cgrid {\fs20 \par }\pard\plain \s16\fi-720\li720\widctlpar\tx-720\tx720\adjustright \f4\fs20\cgrid {7-3.1\tab Duties and Authority\line The Bylaws Committee is charged with maintaining the GPCA Bylaws and assisting with their amendment or revision. All Bylaw amendment proposals must be reviewed by the Bylaws Committee before submission to the General Assembly.\par }\pard\plain \fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\cgrid {\fs20 \par }\pard\plain \s16\fi-720\li720\widctlpar\tx-720\tx720\adjustright \f4\fs20\cgrid {7-3.2\tab Bylaws Interpretation\line In cases of bylaw ambiguity or procedural disagreement, the General Assembly shall decide for itself the meaning of its bylaws or the appropriate procedure to be followed. Between General Assembly meetings, the Coordinating Committee shall decide these questions subject to review at the next General Assembly meeting. The Bylaws Committee and its coordinators are charged with assisting with the interpretation of the Bylaws and the resolution of procedural questions.\par }\pard\plain \fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\cgrid {\fs20 \par }\pard\plain \s18\fi-720\li720\widctlpar\tx-720\tx720\adjustright \caps\f4\fs20\cgrid {Section 7-4.  Platform Committee\par }\pard\plain \fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\cgrid {\fs20 \par }\pard\plain \s16\fi-720\li720\widctlpar\tx-720\tx720\adjustright \f4\fs20\cgrid {7-4.1\tab Duties and Authority\line The Platform Committee is charged with maintaining the Platform of the GPCA and assisting with its amendment or revision. All platform proposals must be reviewed by the Platform Committee before submission to the General Assembly.\par }\pard\plain \fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\cgrid {\fs20 \par }\pard\plain \s16\fi-720\li720\widctlpar\tx-720\tx720\adjustright \f4\fs20\cgrid {7-4.2\tab Platform Research and Interpretation\line The Platform Committee shall identify issues not in the platform, and suggest and formulate platform planks with substantial input from appropriate experts in the field. The Platform Committee shall also assist the General Assembly, the Coordinating Committee, and the Media Spokespersons with formulating positions or statements on issues or initiatives related to official platform positions.\par }\pard\plain \fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\cgrid {\fs20 \par }\pard\plain \s18\fi-720\li720\widctlpar\tx-720\tx720\adjustright \caps\f4\fs20\cgrid {Section 7-5.  International Protocol Committee\par }\pard\plain \fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\cgrid {\fs20 \par }\pard\plain \s16\fi-720\li720\widctlpar\tx-720\tx720\adjustright \f4\fs20\cgrid {7-5.1\tab Duties and Authority\line The International Protocol Committee is charged with administrating, hosting, and networking with international Greens.\par }\pard\plain \fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\cgrid {\fs20 \par }\pard\plain \s18\fi-720\li720\widctlpar\tx-720\tx720\adjustright \caps\f4\fs20\cgrid {Section 7-6.  Clearinghouse Committee\par }\pard\plain \fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\cgrid {\fs20 \par }\pard\plain \s16\fi-720\li720\widctlpar\tx-720\tx720\adjustright \f4\fs20\cgrid {7-6.1\tab Duties and Authority\line The Clearinghouse Committee is charged with maintaining an archive of all GPCA documents and data. The Clearinghouse Committee is also charged with facilitating internal and external communications and information dissemination including maintaining the GPCA website and returning communications received by phone, email, and postal mail.\par }\pard\plain \fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\cgrid {\fs20 \par }\pard\plain \s16\fi-720\li720\widctlpar\tx-720\tx720\adjustright \f4\fs20\cgrid {7-6.2\tab Ex Officio Members\line A Webmaster, appointed by the committee, and the Liaison to the Secretary of State are ex-officio members of the Clearinghouse Committee.\par }\pard\plain \s18\widctlpar\tx-720\tx720\adjustright \caps\f4\fs20\cgrid {ARTICLE 8.  STANDING WORKING GROUPS OF THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY \par }\pard\plain \fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\cgrid {\fs20 \par }\pard\plain \s18\fi-720\li720\widctlpar\tx-720\tx720\adjustright \caps\f4\fs20\cgrid {Section 8-1. GrassRoots Organizing Working Group\par }\pard\plain \fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\cgrid {\fs20 \par }\pard\plain \s16\fi-720\li720\widctlpar\tx-720\tx720\adjustright \f4\fs20\cgrid {8-1.1\tab Duties and Authority\line The Grassroots Organizing Working Group (GROW) is charged with facilitating voter registration activities and organizing locals by:\par }\pard\plain \s15\fi-270\li990\widctlpar\tx-720\tx990\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f4 a)\tab Coordinating locals into statewide efforts to register Green Party voters, do public outreach, and increase diversity in the party;\par b)\tab Providing training for county locals in tabling and other grassroots organizing activities;\par c)\tab Developing, maintaining, and providing resources for tabling efforts and organization of locals;\par d)\tab Maintaining lists of registered Green Party voters.\par }\pard\plain \fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\cgrid {\fs20 \par }\pard\plain \s18\fi-720\li720\widctlpar\tx-720\tx720\adjustright \caps\f4\fs20\cgrid {Section 8-2.  Campaigns and Candidates Working Group\par }\pard\plain \fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\cgrid {\fs20 \par }\pard\plain \s16\fi-720\li720\widctlpar\tx-720\tx720\adjustright \f4\fs20\cgrid {8-2.1\tab Duties and Authority\line The Campaigns & Candidates Working Group is charged with facilitating the electoral work of the party by:\par }\pard\plain \s15\fi-270\li990\widctlpar\tx-720\tx990\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f4 a)\tab Educating Green Party members about GPCA electoral strategy;\par b)\tab Identifying key political campaigns in which Green Party activists can play a pivotal role;\par c)\tab Identifying registered Greens who would make credible candidates;\par d)\tab Promoting and facilitating effective regional strategies for winning campaigns;\par e)\tab Training Green Party activists in methods of waging political campaigns;\par f)\tab Facilitating fundraising operations for GPCA-endorsed electoral campaigns.\par }\pard\plain \widctlpar\adjustright \f4\cgrid {\fs20 \par *** Unresolved concern, see introductory text. A concern was raised about leaving out the statement, "educate Greens about the importance of running credible candidates in strategically chosen races and avoiding poor candidates and unconstructive races," as stated in the original Restructuring proposal. The Bylaws Committee recommends using the clause, "educating Green Party members about GPCA electoral strategy," which adequately covers this overly-specific policy statement. ***\par }\pard \fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright {\fs20 \par }\pard\plain \s18\fi-720\li720\widctlpar\tx-720\tx720\adjustright \caps\f4\fs20\cgrid {Section 8-3.  Electoral Reform Working Group\par }\pard\plain \fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\cgrid {\fs20 \par }\pard\plain \s16\fi-720\li720\widctlpar\tx-720\tx720\adjustright \f4\fs20\cgrid {8-3.1\tab Duties and Authority\line The Electoral Reform Working Group is charged with facilitating the electoral reform work of the party by:\par }\pard\plain \s15\fi-270\li990\widctlpar\tx-720\tx990\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f4 a)\tab Educating Green Party members, the public, and the media about GPCA-endorsed electoral reforms;\par b)\tab Identifying strategies for enacting GPCA-endorsed electoral reforms;\par c)\tab Promoting and facilitating local and statewide campaigns for GPCA-endorsed electoral reforms;\par d)\tab Advising GPCA on internal party voting mechanisms and electoral policy.\par }\pard\plain \s16\fi-720\li720\widctlpar\tx-720\tx720\adjustright \f4\fs20\cgrid {\par }\pard \s16\widctlpar\tx-720\tx0\adjustright {*** Unresolved concern, see introductory text. A concern was raised about leaving out the list of specific reforms, "Proportional Representation, Instant Runoff Voting, and public financing of elections," as stated in the original Restructuring proposal. The Bylaws Committee recommends using the clause, "GPCA-endorsed electoral reforms," which adequately includes the items within this overly-specific list ***\par }\pard\plain \fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\cgrid {\fs20 \par }\pard\plain \s18\fi-720\li720\widctlpar\tx-720\tx720\adjustright \caps\f4\fs20\cgrid {Section 8-4.  Green Issues Working Group\par }\pard\plain \fi-360\li360\widctlpar\adjustright \f4\cgrid {\fs20 \par }\pard\plain \s16\fi-720\li720\widctlpar\tx-720\tx720\adjustright \f4\fs20\cgrid {8-4.1\tab Duties and Authority\line The Green Issues Working Group is charged with facilitating the Green issues work of the party by:\par }\pard\plain \s15\fi-270\li990\widctlpar\tx-720\tx990\adjustright \fs20\cgrid {\f4 a)\tab Identifying, facilitating discussion, and preparing proposals on issues and events that should be addressed by the GPCA;\par b)\tab Advise the Platform Committee on the development of platform proposals on issues identified by the Working Group;\par }\pard \s15\li720\widctlpar\tx-720\tx990\adjustright {\f4 c)\tab Promoting and providing support for Green issues to candidates running for office;\par d)\tab Building coalitions with other organizations working on Green issues.\par \par }}